So far, we've only modified existing Spring Boot and starter default properties.
In this particular demo,
we're going to add a custom property called app.version and create a
controller to display the app version when called.
I'm just going to jump back to the
application.properties file and add that in there,
and I'll create a new property called app.version and set it to 1.0 .0.
This is a completely custom property that I want to use in my application,
and it has no correlation to anything that Spring Boot provides.
This custom property represents the version of our application,
and every release,
we could bump the version just so that you know which version
of code is running when you access the API.
Adding the property is not enough.
We actually need to create a controller to actually spit out the
property when you call the home of your application.
So I'll go jump back to the Java source code,
and I'm going to find the controllers package,
and let's create a new controller called the HomeController.
Do that by calling a new Java class, and I'll call that HomeController.
This is like any other controller.
We need to annotate is as a REST controller and import that,
and we can create a root or default handler for this
by adding the following methods.
We'll make it a GET HTTP verb method.
We'll have that return a Map type, which is part of the java.util collections,
and it will service the root or home section of your application.
Since Jackson is our marshaler for objects to JSON,
it'll take the map and its key-value pairs and just print them
back out to the response as a JSON payload.
So before we implement the method body, now comes the cool part.
We can inject the app version that we just created into the
controller by doing something like this.
I can use the @Value annotation,
and you'll notice that I have a dollar sign and curly brackets,
and I've specified my app.version.
This custom notation tells Spring Boot and Spring to look in the properties
section of the app and find that and inject the value into the private
String app.version attribute that I've created.
Now all I need to do is set that in a map and return it in my method.
I can do that by instantiating a new HashMap,
setting it to the Map interface handle, I can then do a map.put,
store the app-version and the version from the properties
file into that value of the key-value pair,
and then finally, return the map,
and Jackson will auto-marshal that into JSON for me.
So now to test it out.
I'm going to make sure and make sure everything saved and restart the server.
Once that's up, I can jump back to Postman,
and I can adjust my URL call to simply go to the root or home section.
Again, we set that up as a GET verb,
so we'll want to make sure we're using GET in the URL call,
and we'll go ahead and send that to the server.
And you'll notice, we now have an app-version status page for our application.
It's returning 1.0 .0.
Hopefully this gives you an idea of how easy it is to set up your
own custom application properties and use them anywhere in your
code that is Spring context aware.
Simply inject it and use it.
Next,
we're going to look at configuration outside of property files using the 100% pure Java code to create configuration.